After we've created all these nice graphics
we of course also want to export them
so that we can further edit them in an additional
software or we can use them in fabrication
processes like 3d printing or laser cutting. To
do so there's a very simple function called "save"
we can add an optional parameter to also define
the name of the exported image. And if i would
save this right now, this could potentially lead
to the browser crashing or the browser stopping
our script. Because, remember the draw
function is continuously called, so after
i save the first image the loop would start
again and i would have to save another image,
another, another, another image. So to overcome
this, we simply use our "noLoop()" command.
Save this. So now the save file panel is opening,
we can save the image but then the "draw"
loop is stopped. So what i like to do instead
of doing this directly inside the draw
function is to use one of the event functions
for example the keypressed function you could
also do this for a specific key, but
i will just do it for any key now.
so if the key function if the keypressed
event is called, now i want to save my image.
so now the loop starts. nothing
happens. and if i press any key now
the save panel opens up again and i can
save my file. so as i said in the beginning
the normal renderer of p5.js uses pixel data, so
we can just export pixel images like png or jpg,
but especially if we want to edit our results
in a vector graphics program or we want to use
it for laser cutting we need vector data to
get vector data we need to change the renderer
to the SVG renderer so we simply add svg to our
createCanvas and now we can also export svg data.
so if i change this to svg save it again i
now get an actual circle as a vector path
and can use it in a vector editing software. But
when working with vector data there's a few things
to keep in mind. Most of the functions of p5.js
work for raster as well as vector data so there's
nothing much to worry about. But especially when
you're exporting it you have to keep in mind that
for every point for example in a polygon that
you create this is an extra bit of information
so for a raster image you just really have all the
individual pixels and a color value for each pixel
but with vector data you can provide a lot more
data and files can get really big and for example
if you draw a polygon with tons of individual
points through the vertex function at some point
if you have tens of thousands of points even some
of the graphics editing software will stop showing
you these paths because they're just too big. even
acrobat reader will not be able to show you the
full path, because it's just too much points
so you have to keep in mind to not make your
vector data not too complex otherwise you won't
be able to use it in another kind of software